[RSDK-8467] update SLAM docs to talk about the cloudslam wrapper module (#3249)
viamrobotics/docs: docs/services/slam/cartographer/_index.md

Creating and updating SLAM maps with Cartographer is especially CPU-intensive, so the `cartographer` modular resource runs in the cloud for these two tasks.

> For doing pure localization on an existing map, the `cartographer` modular resource runs locally on your machine.

Reviewer: Can remove, is redundant with the "Running cartographer in the cloud" note below

Creating and updating SLAM maps with Cartographer is especially CPU-intensive, so the `cartographer` modular resource runs in the cloud for these two tasks.
For doing pure localization on an existing map, the `cartographer` modular resource runs locally on your machine.

### Hardware requirements

{{% alert title="Running cartographer in the cloud" color="info" %}}

Creating and updating SLAM maps with Cartographer is especially CPU-intensive.

> As an available option you can use the [cloudslam wrapper module](../cloudslam) to move computation to the cloud.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you do not have enough resources locally, you can use the [cloudslam wrapper module](../cloudslam) to move computation to the cloud.
```

> ### Create a new map

Reviewer: Could fix while we're here on L88 above: The "If you choose this option..." bullet probably makes sense to be a sub-bullet of the "Add both IMU and odometry data" bullet

To create a new map, follow the instructions below.

{{< tabs name="Create new map">}}
{{% tab name="Config Builder" %}}

1. Ensure any sensors you wish to use are configured on the machine:

   Having a 2D LiDAR camera(such as the `rplidar`) is required for using cartographer

>    Additionally, you can configure movement sensors on the machine. If you do, ensure the movement sensor supports the [required readings](#movement-sensors-optional).

Reviewer: [optional] Maybe remove? Could just say "see Hardware Requirements above"

### Create a new map

To create a new map, follow the instructions below.

{{< tabs name="Create new map">}}
{{% tab name="Config Builder" %}}

1. Ensure any sensors you wish to use are configured on the machine:

   Having a 2D LiDAR camera(such as the `rplidar`) is required for using cartographer

>    Additionally, you can configure movement sensors on the machine. If you do, ensure the movement sensor supports the required readings described [above](#movement-sensors-optional).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   Additionally, you can configure movement sensors on the machine. If you do, ensure the movement sensor supports the [required readings](#movement-sensors-optional).
```

> 

Reviewer: Noticed we don't show "show additional parameters" in the config card anymore

   Check the **LOGS** tab of your machine in the Viam app to make sure your RPlidar has connected and no errors are being raised.

3. (Optional) Configure cartographer to use cloudslam:

>     On the `SLAM` service configuration pane, switch the configuration to the Advanced view and set the `use_cloud_slam` field to **true**. This setting disables local mapping to limit cpu usage in favor of using cloudslam.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    On the `SLAM` service configuration pane, click the **{}** button to switch to advanced views and set the `use_cloud_slam` field to **true**. This setting disables local mapping to limit cpu usage in favor of using cloudslam.
```

    In addition, your configured LiDAR camera and movement sensor must have data capture enabled. See the [cloudslam](../cloudslam) documentation for more information on how to configure the feature on your machine and how to use cloudslam.

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab name="JSON Example" %}}

This example JSON configuration:

- adds the `viam:rplidar` and the `viam:cartographer` modules

> - configures the `viam:slam:cartographer` service and the [data management service](/services/data/)

Reviewer 2: so what now happens with the data service?

Author: the data service is only required when using cloudslam, so I wanted to move any references to data into that doc. Cartographer running locally has no dependencies on data capture

Reviewer 2: ok thx

For more information about the configuration attributes, see [Attributes](#attributes).

> After configuring cartographer the machine should begin mapping automatically. Navigate to the **CONTROL** tab on your machine's page and click on the dropdown menu matching the `name` of the service you created. See our [tips](../#slam-mapping-best-practices) for making a good map! If you want to save your locally built map, you can use the **GetInternalState API** or use the local map uploading feature of the [cloudslam wrapper module](../cloudslam/)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After configuring cartographer the machine should begin mapping automatically. Navigate to the **CONTROL** tab on your machine's page and click on the dropdown menu matching the `name` of the service you created. See our [tips](../#slam-mapping-best-practices) for making a good map! If you want to save your locally built map, you can use the **GetInternalState API** or use the local map uploading feature of the [cloudslam wrapper module](../cloudslam/).
```

### Update an existing map

To update an existing map with new pointcloud data from a new SLAM session, follow the instructions below.

> 1. Configure your `cartographer` SLAM service using a map from your location:

Reviewer: Should we mention you should switch mapping mode to Update?

For more information about the configuration attributes, see [Attributes](#attributes).

After configuring cartographer the machine should begin mapping automatically.  Navigate to the **CONTROL** tab on your machine's page and click on the dropdown menu matching the `name` of the service you created. See our [tips](#slam-mapping-best-practices) for making a good map! If you want to save your locally built map, you can use the **GetInternalState API** or use the local map uploading feature of the [cloudslam wrapper module](../cloudslam)

### Update an existing map

To update an existing map with new pointcloud data from a new SLAM session, follow the instructions below.

> 1. Configure your `cartographer` SLAM service using a map from your location:

Author: I shouldn't have the number here, but idk what to put

Reviewer 2: why shouldn't there be a number?

Author: just saw you made viewing its own step, which also works!

   This example JSON configuration:

   - adds the `viam:rplidar` and the `viam:cartographer` modules
   - configures the `viam:slam:cartographer` service

>    - adds an `viam:lidar:rplidar` camera

Reviewer 3: repeated from bullet point 1?

Reviewer 3: ah no, modules versus model.

   {{% /tab %}}
   {{< /tabs >}}

>    For more information about the configuration attributes, see [Attributes](#attributes). If you want to configure cartographer to use a locally saved map, see [Using locally built maps](#using-locally-built-maps).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   For more information about the configuration attributes, see [Attributes](#attributes).
   
   If you want to configure cartographer to use a locally saved map, see [Using locally built maps](#using-locally-built-maps).
```

   {{% /tab %}}
   {{< /tabs >}}

   For more information about the configuration attributes, see [Attributes](#attributes). If you want to configure cartographer to use a locally saved map, see [Using locally built maps](#using-locally-built-maps).

>    After configuring cartographer the machine should begin mapping automatically. Navigate to the **CONTROL** tab on your machine's page and click on the dropdown menu matching the `name` of the service you created.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
 2. After configuring cartographer the machine should begin mapping automatically. Navigate to the **CONTROL** tab on your machine's page and click on the dropdown menu matching the `name` of the service you created.
```

### Localize only

In this mode, the `cartographer` module on your machine executes the Cartographer algorithm to find its position on a map. This mode is better when using [motion planning's MoveOnMap](/services/motion/#moveonmap) because the map will not be modified.

> 1.  Configure your `cartographer` SLAM service:

Reviewer: similarly mention switching mapping mode?

### Localize only

> In this mode, the `cartographer` module on your machine executes the Cartographer algorithm to find its position on a map. This mode is better when using motion planning because the map will no longer be modified.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In this mode, the `cartographer` module on your machine executes the Cartographer algorithm to find its position on a map. This mode is better when using motion planning because the map will not be modified.
```

    {{% /tab %}}
    {{< /tabs >}}

    For more information about the configuration attributes, see [Attributes](#attributes). If you want to configure cartographer to use a locally saved map, see [Using locally built maps](#using-locally-built-maps).

2. After configuring cartographer on the machine, the map should appear automatically. Navigate to the **CONTROL** tab on your machine's page and click on the dropdown menu matching the `name` of the service you created.

>    ![slam RC card localize only](/services/slam/slam-RC-card-localize-only.png)

Reviewer: [optional] Can remove the image, we don't show an image for "create new map" or "update existing"

    {{% /tab %}}
    {{< /tabs >}}

    For more information about the configuration attributes, see [Attributes](#attributes). If you want to configure cartographer to use a locally saved map, see [Using locally built maps](#using-locally-built-maps).

>     After configuring cartographer the machine should the map should appear automatically.  Navigate to the **CONTROL** tab on your machine's page and click on the dropdown menu matching the `name` of the service you created.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    After configuring cartographer on the machine, the map should appear automatically.  Navigate to the **CONTROL** tab on your machine's page and click on the dropdown menu matching the `name` of the service you created.
```

| `use_cloud_slam` | boolean | **Required** | If `true`, the Cartographer algorithm will disable mapping on the machine. This feature should only be used when trying to use [cloudslam](../cloudslam/). |
| `camera` | obj | **Required** | An object of the form `{ "name": <string>, "data_frequency_hz": <int> }` where `name` is the name of the LiDAR camera component to use as input and `data_frequency_hz` is the rate at which to capture (in "Create new map" or "Update existing map" modes) or poll (in "Localize only" mode) data from that camera component. |
| `movement_sensor` | obj | Optional | An object of the form `{ "name": <string>, "data_frequency_hz": <int> }` where `name` is the name of the IMU movement sensor (that is, a movement sensor that supports the `GetAngularVelocity` and `GetLinearAcceleration` API methods) to use as additional input and `data_frequency_hz` is the rate at which to capture (in "Create new map" or "Update existing map" modes) or poll (in "Localize only" mode) data from that movement sensor component. |
| `enable_mapping` | boolean | Optional | If `true`, Cartographer will build the map in addition to doing localization. <ul> Default: `true` </ul> |

> | `existing_map` | string | Optional | The alias of the package containing the existing map to build on (in "Update existing map" mode) or localize on (in "Localize only" mode). Can also point to a locally saved `.pbstream` file. |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| `existing_map` | string | Optional | The alias of the package containing the existing map to build on (in "Update existing map" mode) or localize on (in "Localize only" mode). Can also point to a locally saved `.pbstream` file if you have completed creating or updating your map locally on the robot  cloud connectivity. |
```

Is this what you're getting at?

Author: I don't know what "robot cloud connectivity" has to do with anything here. The intent is just to say `if you have a local .pbstream file, you can use that too`

Reviewer 3: Yeah but when will they want to use the local pbstream is unclear, even to me.

Author: they want to use a local pbstream when they don't want to use cloudslam. i.e. they don't want to spend money/touch the $5 budget. I am intentionally not calling that detail out, but I can if you think we should
